README.md, before:

# filesystem cookbook

[![Cookbook Version](https://img.shields.io/cookbook/v/filesystem.svg)](https://supermarket.chef.io/cookbooks/filesystem)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/sous-chefs/filesystem/master.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/sous-chefs/filesystem)
[![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/backers/badge.svg)](#backers)
[![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsors/badge.svg)](#sponsors)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-green.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

This cookbook exists to generically define and create block device filesystems with the minimum of inputs.

This cookbook supports four main types of block devices:

- normal `device` - drives, ssds, volumes presented by HBAs etc
- device ID `uuid` - mostly found on drives / known block IDs.
- LVM Volume Groups `vg` - found on systems using LVM.
- file-backed `file` - created dynamically and looped back.

We will try to create filesystems in two ways: through keys found in node data under 'filesystems' or by being called directly with the `filesystem` default provider. See the example recipe.

You can also use your own key for a list of filesystems, see the example recipe for an example of this option.

Tools have been listed in the following attribute key : filesystem_tools. This allows for extending the support to other/new filesystems.

## Requirements

- lvm cookbook when creating logical volumes
- package #{fstype}progs to support your chosen fstype. We provide some defaults, too.

## Main Attributes

##### `filesystems`

Hash of filesytems to setup - this is called filesystems because filesystem is already created/managed by ohai (i.e. no s on the end).

##### `node[:filesystems]` keys

Each filesytem's key is the FS `label`: This explains each key in a filesystems entry. The label must not exceed 12 characters.

We also let you use your own top-level key if you want - see the default recipe and example recipe.

## Filesystem Backing Location keys


##### `device`

Path to the device to create the filesystem upon.

##### `uuid`

UUID of the device to create the filesystem upon.

##### `file`

Path to the file-backed storage to be used for a loopback device. `device` must also be present to specify the loopback. If the `file` is not present it will be created, as long as a size is given.

##### `vg`

Name of the LVM volume group use as backing store for a logical volume. If not present it will be created, as long as a size is given.

Each filesystem should be given one of these attributes for it to have a location to be created at.

If none of these are present then we try to find a device at the label itself.

## Filesystem Creation Options

##### `fstype` [ocfs2|ext3|ext4|etc] (default: ext3)

The type of filesystem to be created.

##### `mkfs_options` unique for each filesystem.

Options to pass to mkfs at creation time.

## Filesystem Backing Options

##### `size` 10000 (`file`) or 10%VG|10g (`vg`)

The size, only used for filesystems backed by `vg` and `file` storage. If vg then a number suffixied by the scale [g|m|t|p], if a file then just a number [megabytes].

##### `sparse` Boolean (default: true)

Sparse file creation, used by the `file` storage, by default we use this for speed, but you may not want that.

##### `stripes` optional

The stripes, only used for filesystems backed by `vg` aka LVM storage.

##### `mirrors` optional

The mirrors, only used for filesystems backed by `vg` aka LVM storage.

## Filesystem Mounting Options

##### `mount` /path/to/mount

Path to mount the filesystem. (If present we will mount the filesystem - this is rather important)

##### `options` rw,noatime,defaults (default: defaults)

Options to mount with and add to the fstab.

##### `dump` 0|1|2 (default: 0)

Dump entry for fstab

##### `pass` 0|1|2 (default: 0)

Pass entry for fstab

##### `user` name

Owner of the mountpoint, otherwise we use the chef default. We will not try to create users. You should use the users cookbook for that.

##### `group` name

Group of the mountpoint, otherwise we use the chef default. We will not try to create groups. You should write a cookbook to make them nicely.

##### `mode` 775

Mode of the mountpoint, otherwise we use the chef default.

## Package and Recipe Options

##### `package` Package name to install, if specified.

Used to support the filesystem

##### `recipe` Recipe to run, if specified - for future use, not currently supported from the lwrp.

Used to support the filesystem

## Atypical Behaviour Modifiers

##### `force` Boolean (default: false)

Set to true we unsafely create filesystems. If there is data it will be lost. Should not use this unless you are quite confident.

##### `ignore_existing` Boolean (default: false)

Set to true we will ignore existing filesystems and recreate them. Double Dangerous and only for unsound behaviour. Use with 'force' true.

##### `nomkfs` Boolean (default: false)

Set to true to disable creation of the filesystem.

##### `nomount` Boolean (default: false)

Set to true to disable mounting of the filesystem.

##### `noenable` Boolean (default: false)

Set to true to disable adding to fstab.

## Usage

Keyed filesystem creation:

````JSON
{
 "filesystems": {
   "testfs1": {
     "device": "/dev/sdb",
     "mount": "/db",
     "fstype": "xfs",
     "optons": "noatime,nobarrier",
     "mkfs_options": "-d sunit=128,swidth=2048"
   },
   "applv1": {
     "mount": "/logical1",
     "fstype": "ext4",
     "vg": "standardvg",
     "size": "20G"
   },
   "cluster_01": {
     "fstype": "ocfs2",
     "package": "ocfs2-tools",
     "device": "/dev/mpath/ocfs01",
     "mount": "/mnt/test"
    },
   "filebacked": {
     "file": "/mnt/filesystem-on-a-filesystem.file",
     "device": "/dev/loop7",
     "mount": "/mnt/filesystem-on-a-filesystem",
     "size": "20000"
    }
  }
}
````

Direct LWRP'd creation:

````RUBY
filesystem "label" do
  fstype "ext3"
  device "/dev/sdb1"
  mount "/mnt/littlelabel"
  action [:create, :enable, :mount]
end
````

## Links

Development is at https://github.com/atrullmdsol/filesystem_cookbook
Opscode community page is at http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/filesystem

## Authors

- Alex Trull <cookbooks.atrullmdsol@trull.org>
- Jesse Nelson <spheromak@gmail.com> source of the original cookbook.

## Contributors

This project exists thanks to all the people who [contribute.](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/contributors.svg?width=890&button=false)

### Backers

Thank you to all our backers!

![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs#backers](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/backers.svg?width=600&avatarHeight=40)

### Sponsors

Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website.

![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/0/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/0/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/1/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/1/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/2/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/2/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/3/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/3/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/4/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/4/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/5/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/5/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/6/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/6/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/7/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/7/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/8/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/8/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/9/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/9/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)

Commit message:

Readme Maintainers (#57)
This commit adds information about us, the maintainers, and how to contact us on slack/ our website

README.md, after:

# filesystem cookbook

[![Cookbook Version](https://img.shields.io/cookbook/v/filesystem.svg)](https://supermarket.chef.io/cookbooks/filesystem)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/sous-chefs/filesystem/master.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/sous-chefs/filesystem)
[![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/backers/badge.svg)](#backers)
[![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsors/badge.svg)](#sponsors)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-green.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

This cookbook exists to generically define and create block device filesystems with the minimum of inputs.

This cookbook supports four main types of block devices:

- normal `device` - drives, ssds, volumes presented by HBAs etc
- device ID `uuid` - mostly found on drives / known block IDs.
- LVM Volume Groups `vg` - found on systems using LVM.
- file-backed `file` - created dynamically and looped back.

We will try to create filesystems in two ways: through keys found in node data under 'filesystems' or by being called directly with the `filesystem` default provider. See the example recipe.

You can also use your own key for a list of filesystems, see the example recipe for an example of this option.

Tools have been listed in the following attribute key : filesystem_tools. This allows for extending the support to other/new filesystems.

## Maintainers

This cookbook is maintained by the Sous Chefs. The Sous Chefs are a community of Chef cookbook maintainers working together to maintain important cookbooks. If you’d like to know more please visit [sous-chefs.org](https://sous-chefs.org/) or come chat with us on the Chef Community Slack in [#sous-chefs](https://chefcommunity.slack.com/messages/C2V7B88SF).

## Requirements

- lvm cookbook when creating logical volumes
- package #{fstype}progs to support your chosen fstype. We provide some defaults, too.

## Main Attributes

##### `filesystems`

Hash of filesytems to setup - this is called filesystems because filesystem is already created/managed by ohai (i.e. no s on the end).

##### `node[:filesystems]` keys

Each filesytem's key is the FS `label`: This explains each key in a filesystems entry. The label must not exceed 12 characters.

We also let you use your own top-level key if you want - see the default recipe and example recipe.

## Filesystem Backing Location keys


##### `device`

Path to the device to create the filesystem upon.

##### `uuid`

UUID of the device to create the filesystem upon.

##### `file`

Path to the file-backed storage to be used for a loopback device. `device` must also be present to specify the loopback. If the `file` is not present it will be created, as long as a size is given.

##### `vg`

Name of the LVM volume group use as backing store for a logical volume. If not present it will be created, as long as a size is given.

Each filesystem should be given one of these attributes for it to have a location to be created at.

If none of these are present then we try to find a device at the label itself.

## Filesystem Creation Options

##### `fstype` [ocfs2|ext3|ext4|etc] (default: ext3)

The type of filesystem to be created.

##### `mkfs_options` unique for each filesystem.

Options to pass to mkfs at creation time.

## Filesystem Backing Options

##### `size` 10000 (`file`) or 10%VG|10g (`vg`)

The size, only used for filesystems backed by `vg` and `file` storage. If vg then a number suffixied by the scale [g|m|t|p], if a file then just a number [megabytes].

##### `sparse` Boolean (default: true)

Sparse file creation, used by the `file` storage, by default we use this for speed, but you may not want that.

##### `stripes` optional

The stripes, only used for filesystems backed by `vg` aka LVM storage.

##### `mirrors` optional

The mirrors, only used for filesystems backed by `vg` aka LVM storage.

## Filesystem Mounting Options

##### `mount` /path/to/mount

Path to mount the filesystem. (If present we will mount the filesystem - this is rather important)

##### `options` rw,noatime,defaults (default: defaults)

Options to mount with and add to the fstab.

##### `dump` 0|1|2 (default: 0)

Dump entry for fstab

##### `pass` 0|1|2 (default: 0)

Pass entry for fstab

##### `user` name

Owner of the mountpoint, otherwise we use the chef default. We will not try to create users. You should use the users cookbook for that.

##### `group` name

Group of the mountpoint, otherwise we use the chef default. We will not try to create groups. You should write a cookbook to make them nicely.

##### `mode` 775

Mode of the mountpoint, otherwise we use the chef default.

## Package and Recipe Options

##### `package` Package name to install, if specified.

Used to support the filesystem

##### `recipe` Recipe to run, if specified - for future use, not currently supported from the lwrp.

Used to support the filesystem

## Atypical Behaviour Modifiers

##### `force` Boolean (default: false)

Set to true we unsafely create filesystems. If there is data it will be lost. Should not use this unless you are quite confident.

##### `ignore_existing` Boolean (default: false)

Set to true we will ignore existing filesystems and recreate them. Double Dangerous and only for unsound behaviour. Use with 'force' true.

##### `nomkfs` Boolean (default: false)

Set to true to disable creation of the filesystem.

##### `nomount` Boolean (default: false)

Set to true to disable mounting of the filesystem.

##### `noenable` Boolean (default: false)

Set to true to disable adding to fstab.

## Usage

Keyed filesystem creation:

````JSON
{
 "filesystems": {
   "testfs1": {
     "device": "/dev/sdb",
     "mount": "/db",
     "fstype": "xfs",
     "optons": "noatime,nobarrier",
     "mkfs_options": "-d sunit=128,swidth=2048"
   },
   "applv1": {
     "mount": "/logical1",
     "fstype": "ext4",
     "vg": "standardvg",
     "size": "20G"
   },
   "cluster_01": {
     "fstype": "ocfs2",
     "package": "ocfs2-tools",
     "device": "/dev/mpath/ocfs01",
     "mount": "/mnt/test"
    },
   "filebacked": {
     "file": "/mnt/filesystem-on-a-filesystem.file",
     "device": "/dev/loop7",
     "mount": "/mnt/filesystem-on-a-filesystem",
     "size": "20000"
    }
  }
}
````

Direct LWRP'd creation:

````RUBY
filesystem "label" do
  fstype "ext3"
  device "/dev/sdb1"
  mount "/mnt/littlelabel"
  action [:create, :enable, :mount]
end
````

## Links

Development is at https://github.com/atrullmdsol/filesystem_cookbook
Opscode community page is at http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/filesystem

## Authors

- Alex Trull <cookbooks.atrullmdsol@trull.org>
- Jesse Nelson <spheromak@gmail.com> source of the original cookbook.

## Contributors

This project exists thanks to all the people who [contribute.](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/contributors.svg?width=890&button=false)

### Backers

Thank you to all our backers!

![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs#backers](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/backers.svg?width=600&avatarHeight=40)

### Sponsors

Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website.

![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/0/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/0/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/1/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/1/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/2/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/2/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/3/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/3/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/4/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/4/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/5/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/5/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/6/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/6/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/7/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/7/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/8/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/8/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
![https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/9/website](https://opencollective.com/sous-chefs/sponsor/9/avatar.svg?avatarHeight=100)
